>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
the main building blocks of Angular 2.
So there are some additional build blocks.
But these are the most important ones.
Modules, routes, components and services.
And do let me tell you why I chose those.
So this is The Angular 1.x Big Picture.
When you simplify it, this is what
generally, an angular app looks like.
Which at the time, when I did this first
diagram, Angular one was super confusing.
People were like, so
it's just eight pieces?
Like okay, that makes sense.
So you have your module, config, routes.
Then you have controller, scope and view.
And then if you need to
extend your controller.
Then you do that into a service.
And if you need to extend your view,
then that becomes a directive.
Well, this is the Angular
2 big picture as I see it.
So you have your module, your routes,
your component and then your service.
And so, let's step through these.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The module.
So we have module support.
Initially at a language level,
but now at a framework level.
So Angular 2 uses ES6 modules for,
essentially the core mechanism for
composition.
So when we create something we export it,
so that we can import it somewhere else.
So this is ES6 modules, and the goal is
to keep these modules fine-grained and
self-documenting, clean code all the way.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
what we have here is a ItemsComponent, and
you can see here that we're exporting it.
But then you can see that for
ItemsComponent,
that we also can import other things and
make that available.
And so using ES6 module syntax,
this gives us the ability to
organize things at a language-level.
And then at RC five, we got essentially
module support at the framework-level.
So coming from Angular one,
this is not a new concept.
But we found that with, for instance ahead
of time compilation in different things,
we needed to be able to compile or
know the entirety of the application,
at compiled-time and not run-time.
And so this is why we introduced NgModule.
And at first, I was a little bummed out.
But then I began to realize, this actually
cuts down on a lot of boilerplate.
So you can actually import a dependency
into your module, and then it's available
to every essentially, component or
dependency within that module.
So this is the organizational
mechanism at the framework level.
And there's a few properties.
These are the four that I
think are the most important.
So when you create a component,
that essentially exist in the view,
then you put that under declarations.
Then within your imports,
you can import the list of modules or
sub-modules that, that module needs.
Providers.
So this is where you import your services.
And then, bootstrap.
So this defines the component
that should be bootstrapped.
So what this looks like is declaration.
So what goes in here?
Well, we have an AppComponent,
ItemsComponent, ItemsListComponent, etc.
So you can know that because
it's in the declarations,
that this is a component that's going
to live in the DOM at some point.
Then we have our imports.
So we have our BrowserModule that
essentially contains Angular core,
everything we need to run in the browser.
FormsModule, HttpModule and
then we have the Ng2RestAppRoutingModule.
That's a mouthful.
Thank you Angular CLI for
generating that for us.
But this essentially is a sub-module
that contains all the routes for
our application.
And then providers, ItemsService and
then we're bootstrapping the AppComponent.
If you create a module or sub-module that
has dependencies or things in it, and then
you import it into another module, then
that becomes available to that module.
So as you could see here, that is we're
importing essentially the FormsModule.
Once we import the FormsModule,
then all of the functionality of
forms then is available to this
main AppModule.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then once we have our module in place,
so previous to RC five,
we would actually just bootstrap
to our top-level component.
But now instead of bootstrapping to a
component, we just bootstrap to a module.
So this is one of the pieces that
you just kind of have to know.
But essentially we're saying
platformBrowserDynamic(), so
this is really just the browser.
We're saying,
platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule
this AppModule.
And then what that does is,
it'll bootstrap the module.
But then it will look for
the app component and
then basically try to spin up
the application from there.
Let me ask you,
hop into the code real quick.
I thought I had one more slide.
But I'll just show you real quick,
so if we go into our index.html and
let's go into our app component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You can
see here within our component,
we have a selector of app-root.
If we go into our index.html,
you notice that that exists as app-root.
So the selector, this is how
this component begins to live
within essentially, your DOM.
So every component, if it's going
to essentially be instantiated,
it's either via really the most common way
is by actually adding it to a template.
You can essentially load
these in via routes but
generally, at least especially for
the top-level of the component, you need
to actually add that to your index.html.
So be sure to take your top-level module,
look for the top-level component,
and from there make sure that
you've added it to the DOM.
Now the upside is, so
let's actually just look here.
So, bootstrap: [AppComponent].
So it's bootstrap your module,
which then bootstraps your
top-level component,
which then lives in your index.html.
And so we'll get more into this
when we get into components, but
I just wanted to call out that
when you bootstrap something,
you need to have that top-level
module selector in your index.html.
So routes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
routes gives us the ability to essentially
take a certain state and say, for
this state I want to take this component
and dynamically load it into the page.
So for instance,
hopping back into the browser,
you can see here that the URL
is essentially a serialization or a
representation of the state that we're in.
Up here we have widgets, but
then when I click Items,
now I'm essentially saying load
the state for the items route.
And what you have is a router outlet,
that's essentially taking when
you're on Items, it's just dumping the
items component into the router outlet.
And when you have widgets,
it's taking the widgets component and
putting it into the router outlet.
So you essentially have this
dynamic piece in your code.
That would just dynamically load
components into it depending on your
router state.
So if we go back here,
essentially we define a route table
that is of a type route that just, in the
simplest form, has a path and a component.
And then from there,
when you hit upon that path,
it will just take that component and
load it into the router-outlet component,
which is just something
that's is in the DOM,
it's that if you're at this path,
take this component and load it in here.
And then we can just navigate
to routes using routerLink, or
router.navigate if you
wanna do it imperatively.
This is a gotcha here that the router
uses history.pushState, so
you need to set a base-ref in your HTML so
that it can effectively handle that.
Cuz prior to Angular 2 you could
do HTML 5 mode, but by default,
it was essentially hashtag
whatever your route was.
And so now, you'll notice that if I go
back here, that on widget or items,
you'll notice that it's just forward
slash and there's not a hashtag in there.
And so you can set that up if you want.
There are cases where you need to do that.
But as a whole,
it's HTML5 mode by default.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
what we have here is our routes.
Which is essentially just
an array of route objects.
And we have a path and a component.
So if we go to the items path,
then the items component gets
loaded into the router outlet.
And then what we're doing at the bottom
is, essentially within our imports,
we're calling router module for
route and passing our routes in.
And what that does is,
it returns fully configured routes,
essentially service, that we can
then pass along to our application.
So we'll get into more of that today.
And components.
So components are the atomic building
block of Angular 2 applications.
And so when I say component, if you'll
remember on the Angular 1 big picture,
we had essentially a component or
a controller, scope and a template.
Well this is essentially, we've combined
that together into a component.
So component has a template and a class.
And so
a component class is just an ES6 class.
So you'll notice when I say that
Angular 2 is, essentially because it's
standard-based, we're letting really
ES6 the browser do a lot of the work.
So our components are just ES6 classes.
Properties and
methods of the component class,
then those are available to the template.
Dependencies are injected
in the constructor.
And then we have life-cycle hooks,
so that when certain events
happen to our component we can
tap into those and leverage them.
And so what this looks like is, we have
an ES6 class called items component.
And we're implementing
the UnInit interface,
which you can see here at the bottom.
It's ngUnInit(), so it's saying when all
the data bindings have been initialized,
then go ahead and call this method.
Items and selectedItem,
because those are properties on the class,
we can them bind to them in the template,
and we are injecting ItemsService
into our constructor so now, you can
see with an ngUnInit() then we can call
this.itemsService and
it's available for us.
Now on the flip side.
The template, surprise,
tells Angular how to render a component.
And so this includes,
really data bindings, but
it can also contain other components and
directives.
And so, when we get into component-driven
architecture, we're gonna see a lot of
this, is you really want small
fine-grained components that contain other
small fine-grained components, so
not only can you bind the things, but
you can contain sub-components, and
that's actually encouraged to do so.
Angular 2 leverages native DOM events and
properties.
So what this does again, is it reduces
the need for custom directives.
You no longer need like ng-mouseup,
ng-mousedown,
cuz you can bind directly to that
DOM event, and handle it that way.
This is actually one of
my favorite features,
I have a bonus module at the end
that I may talk about briefly.
But Angular 2 by default
leverages shadow DOM.
And so what this allows you to do is,
essentially encapsulate
styles to your component.
So if anybody has ever done components
that get shared across an organization,
that you have something that's beautiful
and somebody does something totally
irresponsible so it's just I think all
buttons should be 200 pixels wide.
And they set some top-level super
generic button with 200 pix or
something, and
it just blows your component out.
And that's the problem with
CSS is the C stands for
cascading and not for component.
But using shadow DOM, or
by default emulate a shadow DOM,
we can actually encapsulate those
styles to the component itself.
So that's super super cool.
And if we have any UI designers or
developers who are doing component
libraries, they should just be like, yes!
Because this is going to
save a lot of heartaches,
a lot of tears and the fact that
when I give this to somebody,
they're not gonna have the ability to
mess it up, or it becomes a lot harder.
And so what we have here,
in ItemsListComponent,
we're actually using template
URL to point to the template.
But one thing I wanna call out is,
you can also use template and
do your templates inline.
And so this is generally by default,
where I start.
The idea is that if your components
are fine-grained enough,
the template should comfortably
live within the metadata.
So for instance, if you have a template
that's 200 lines long of HTML,
you can kinda stop and say, this doesn't
feel right, maybe I'm doing too much and
I need to break this into
smaller sub-components.
So really kind of
the general rule of thumb,
is that your templates should be small
enough to go in-line to the component.
Now, this is not something for
me personally that I'm willing
to make into a religious war.
I'm not going to belittle you,
or get upset, or offended.
There are cases, for
instance if you're doing forms or
somebody else is doing the HTML markup,
to do it as an external template.
But as a whole I recommend, start here and
then when it becomes cumbersome stop and
ask why.
And there may be a case to break out or
not.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Mike has
a question from the room, is the native
DOM used where it's available?
Excuse me,
native shadow DOM used where it's
available?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you can turn that on.
You can turn on, essentially you have view
encapsulation, you can turn it to native.
So by default it's emulated.
And so Angular is gonna
basically emulate shadow DOM.
But unless you are developing
in a vacuum on one browser,
I think that if you go to native shadow
DOM, you are asking for trouble.
Just because the browser support is so
poor for that right now.
So it's not by default, it's
essentially emulated, which does work.
But you can essentially set that on the
component is view encapsulation.native.
Good question.
>> Speaker 2: Follow-up,
well not a follow-up, another question.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Annie is asking would UnInit
run before or after the constructor?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That is
a fantastic question.
So UnInit runs after the constructor.
And so I'm getting ahead of my slides
a bit, but what you wanna actually do is
keep essentially initialization
logic out of your constructor.
Because one, it makes it harder to test,
but more importantly is you may have
a dependency further upstream that
depends on an asynchronous call.
So your constructor is
going to run right away.
But that incoming data may not be there,
when the constructor runs.
And so you will throw an error.
So what you wanna do is actually move
your initialization logic into ngUnInit,
cuz then you know that,
hey all of my bindings
that essentially I depend on have been
initialized, now I can safely go ahead and
depend on the knowledge, that this
particular property is available.
And so that was a mistake I made
when I started learning Angular 2,
is I would basically bind to something,
essentially passing something into my
child-component, and I would just
start doing things in the constructor.
It's like, this thing, it's not here yet.
It's en route from the server.
And so
ngUnInit runs after the constructor, and
that's really where all of your
initialization logic should live.